---
title: Models (D1)
description: Learn how to use Superflare models to interact with your D1 database.
---

Models are a handy way to interact with your [D1 database](https://developers.cloudflare.com/d1/). They provide a layer of abstraction between your database and your application, allowing you to define relationships between models and easily query for data.

Superflare provides a schema builder which is a wrapper around [native D1 migrations](https://developers.cloudflare.com/d1/platform/migrations/). This allows you to define your database schema using a fluent API, and then automatically generate models and type definitions for your database tables.

```ts
import { Schema } from "superflare";

export default () => {
  return Schema.create("posts", (table) => {
    table.increments("id");
    table.string("title");
    table.timestamps();
  });
};
```

When you run `npx superflare migrate`, Superflare will compile a TypeScript migration to a SQL migration file which is used by Wrangler to modify your D1 database:

```sql
create table posts (
  id integer primary key,
  title text not null,
  createdAt timestamp not null default current_timestamp
  updatedAt timestamp not null default current_timestamp
);
```

Models are defined as TypeScript classes. Model class names correspond directly to the table names in the database. For example, a `posts` table would have a corresponding `Post` model:

```ts
import { Model } from "superflare";

export class Post extends Model {
  toJSON(): PostRow {
    return super.toJSON();
  }
}

Model.register(Post);

export interface Post extends PostRow {}
```

{% callout title="Model class names" %}
Model class names are automatically converted to pluralized versions when referencing table names. For example, a `Post` model would have a corresponding `posts` table, and a `Person` model would have a corresponding `people` table. This means model class names must not be [mangled](https://github.com/terser/terser?tab=readme-ov-file#cli-mangle-options) when deployed, so do not use `build: { minify: true }` in your Vite config (Vite’s [default minify behavior](https://vite.dev/config/build-options.html#build-minify) is to minify the client build and leave the SSR build untouched).
{% /callout %}

Superflare provides utilities to help you keep your model's type definition in sync with your database.

Type definitions are created as an interface for each model and stored in `superflare.env.d.ts`. For example, the `Post` model will have a corresponding `PostRow` interface defined by Superflare.

{% callout title="Autogenerated types" %}
Do not manually modify any code within `superflare.env.d.ts`. It is automatically generated by Superflare and will be overwritten when you run `npx superflare migrate`.
{% /callout %}

When you [migrate your database](/database/migrations), Superflare will automatically update your interfaces to match the new database schema.

```bash
npx superflare migrate
```

When you create a new table in a migration, you can run the following command to generate a new corresponding model for the table with types:

```bash
npx superflare migrate --create
```

{% callout title="Generated types on build" %}
`superflare.env.d.ts` is gitignored by default. When running your Superflare app in a CI environment, you should run `npx superflare migrate` before attempting to build the project to prevent TypeScript errors.
{% /callout %}

## Registering Models

You must call `Model.register` after defining each model. This is how Superflare knows which models to load when you run [Jobs](/queues) and other background tasks.

## Creating Models

You can create a new model by running the following command:

```bash
npx superflare generate model Post
```

By default, a new model will be created in the `app/models` directory. You can change this by passing the `--path` flag:

```bash
npx superflare generate model Post --path app/my-models
```

You can also create a migration for your new model at the same time by passing the `--migration` or `-m` flag:

```bash
npx superflare generate model Post --migration
```

## Using Models

[Learn more about using Superflare models](/database/getting-started)
